---
pos: 1
title: CLI
---

# Command-Line Interface

Along with the Visual Studio Code integration, Kretes also provides a command-line interface. Each command available via the editor can also be exectued from the command-line.

Write `kretes` (or `ks`) in a newly generated Kretes project to see all available commands.

```
Usage: kretes <command> [options]

Commands:
  kretes new [dir]           Create new project               [aliases: init, n]
  kretes start               Start the application           [aliases: start, s]
  kretes add [pkg]           Add package as project dependency
  kretes install             Install dependencies
  kretes update              Update packages
  kretes upgrade             Upgrade packages
  kretes setup               Setup the development environment
  kretes database [command]  Database operations                   [aliases: db]
  kretes routes              Display routes                         [aliases: r]
  kretes background          Run background processing             [aliases: bg]
  kretes doctor              Run the doctor utility               [aliases: doc]

Options:
  -h, --help     Show help                                             [boolean]
  -V, --version  Show version number                                   [boolean]

Examples:
  kretes new my-project  Create and initialize `my-project` directory
  kretes start           Start the application

for more information, find the documentation at https://kretes.dev

You need at least one command before moving onn
```

## Commands

### `new` - Create a New Project

`kretes new` generates a project structure for a Kretes application.

### `start` - Start the Application

`kretes start` starts the application in development mode. This command must be run from the project directory generated by `kretes new`. The application will be available at [localhost:5544](http://localhost:5544).

### `add` - Add the package as project dependency

`kretes add` adds a package from the NPM registry as the project dependency by modifying `package.json`. This is a convenience wrapper around `pnpm add`.

### `install` - Install Dependencies

`kretes install` installs the application dependencies as specified in `package.json`. This is a convenience wrapper around `pnpm install`.

### `upgrade` - Upgrade dependencies

`kretes upgrade` upgrades the application dependencies. This comamnd checks if there are new versions of packages in the npm registery as defined in `package.json`. Upgrading changes `package.json`.

### `database` - Manage the database 

`kretes database` (alias `db`) provides a set of commands for the database management. The database connection is established based on the database configuration set in `config/default.json`.

* `kretes database create` creates a new database
* `kretes database reset` drops the existing database and creates a new, empty one with the same name. 
* `kretes database setup` creates the database structure (i.e. tables, schemas, etc) as described in `db/setup.sql`. The database shape must be written using SQL.
* `kretes database seed` reads the `db/seed.sql` and uses its content to seed an exisiting database. The seed must be written using SQL. 